[Dr. Straughn]
That whole process of galaxies
forming andevolving over 13+ billion years,
we've learned a lot about that,
but we're reallymissing
a key piece of the puzzle,
which is how galaxies got their start.
So that's the piecethat we haven't seen yet,
and that's the piece
the James Webb Space Telescope
will allow us to see forthe very first time.
[Dr. Mather]
So the first stars in galaxies
are really the big mystery for us.
We don't knowhow that happened.
We don't know when it happened.
We have a pretty good idea that
they were verymuch larger than the Sun,
and that they would burn out
in a tremendous burst of glory
in just a fewmillion years,
which is really very short.
But, theywould also prepare the way
for further generationsof stars
like the Sun to be formed.
So those first stars would produce
the chemical elements oflife,
carbon and oxygen and nitrogen
and iron and sulfur and calcium
and all the things that
we're made of,
would have been produced
in those first generations of stars
that then explodeand liberate
their material back out into space.
So, the next generation of stars
could form withplanets,
with solid bodies,
and possibly have life.